.. _v3_14_1:

v3.14.1: Change in Domoticz blocks
===================================================

This version contains quite some changes in the handling of Domoticz blocks.
This version may contain breaking changes.

  * getExtendBlockTypes
  * block parameters

getExtendedBlockTypes
---------------------

If you make use of ``getExtendBlockTypes`` in your ``CONFIG.js`` then you have to change your blocktypes definitions.

Creating custom blocktypes derived from the block name is not supported anymore.
It's suggested to use a regular block definition in ``CONFIG.js``.

In this release additinal block parameters have been defined, which include the parameters that were configurable via the blocktypes.

The configurability of other blocktypes is enhanced.
If you want to define custom blocktypes via the getExtendedBlockTypes function it's suggested to analyze the code  in ``./js/blocktypes.js``.
No additional documentation is available at the moment.

Subblock of P1 Smart Meter
----------------------------

One subblock of a P1 Smart Meter displayed both the P1 and P2 values (high and low tariff).
This specific subblock is not available anymore.
You can use the (new) block parameter ``showvalues`` in combination with ``multi_line`` to get a similar block as follows::

    blocks['p1withbothvalues'] = {
      idx: 43,
      showvalues: [6,7],
      multi_line: true,
    }

You can replace ``multi_line`` with ``single_line`` or combine it with ``showsubtitles`` as needed.


