.. _v373:

v3.7.3: Popup blocks and more
===================================================

.. note: Make a backup of the files in the custom folder when updating!

Main changes in v3.7.3 are the following:

* Improved consistency in popup windows
* Possibility to add one or more Dashticz blocks into a popup window

Both points required some code redesign. Also some cleanup actions were implemented. The main changes are summarized below.

New blocks for 'moon' and 'log'
-------------------------------

Both blocks now can be added with there name, or by setting the type parameter. Example::

    blocks['moon'] = {
        width:6
    }

    blocks['logexample'] = {
        type: 'log'
    }

    columns[1] = {
        blocks: ['moon', 'logexample']
    }

The previous method to define 'moon' via the btnimage parameter value ``moon`` is not supported anymore.

The 'log' parameter of a button is not supported anymore.

Removal of 'old' calendar block
-------------------------------

Until now Dashticz supported the 'old' and the 'new' calendar block. The 'old' calendar block has been removed.

See :ref:`newcalendar`

To be able to recognize a calendar block you have to add ``icalurl`` parameter to the block definition.

Styling of popup windows
------------------------

The CSS classes and default styling for popup windows changed.
So if you have some custom popup styling in your ``custom.css`` then probably you have to update this.

See :ref:`popupstyling` for additional information.

Popup windows new functionality
-------------------------------

In the following situation a block click will trigger a newwindow:

* The block is a Domoticz block, but not a switch. The 'graph' parameter is not ``false``. Dashticz will open a popup graph.
* The block contains an url parameter. Dashticz will open the url. The ``newwindow`` block parameter determines how the url will be opened.
* The block contains a ``popup`` parameter. The ``popup`` parameter refers to a block parameter. Dashticz will open the block indicated by the ``popup`` parameter in a popup window.

With the ``newwindow`` block parameter you indicate how the popup will be opened. New option '5' has been added to open the url in a new browser tab.

The 'auto_close' parameter will work on popups with newwindow value 1 (=new window), 2 (=modal popup) and 5 (=new tab)

New block parameter ``blocks``
------------------------------

With the 'blocks' parameter a block acts in fact like a column definition. Example::

    blocks['mypopup'] = {
        blocks: [1,2,'mydial','graph_3', 'log']
    }

In the previous example a block with the name 'mypopup' is created, consisting of two Domoticz devices, a dial, a graph, and a log block.

You can add 'mypopup' to a column, or use is as value for a ``popup`` parameter::

    blocks[123] = {
        popup: 'mypopup'
    }

In this example a block for Domoticz device 123 will have a popup block consisting of 5 other blocks.
